Miguel, you have already explained
what branding is, what it is not,
what it serves, at what point we
must turn to what always,
basically, and what are the benefits.
We have also seen a case.
But of course, we are in doubt, well,
everything is very well, but
how do we land it in our business?
In the business of each.
And if you could give us a series
of concrete keys, based on your
experience, that help create a
powerful brand, I think it would
be very enriching.
If you allow me, I will address this
issue from what we do.
When we help, entrepreneurs,
brands in general, we identify
a series of elements that
don’t just work well and
we group them into five
major areas.
The first is interiorization,
what we call interiorization.
Interiorization in the sense of knowing
that what you have in your
hands is really a brand.
And that that interiorization of the
importance of the brand can be silenced
in the rest of the organization.
Often it is the marketing director
who orders a review project,
brand repositioning,
and what you realize is that
there is a cultural problem
of interiorization.
The CEO is an engineer or
a financial expert who has marketing
knowledge, but who does not just
understand the importance of
branding so that it silences
first from within and then from
outside, but first from within.
A good general manager is a
marketing expert who also knows
how to interpret a balance sheet.
I cannot agree more.
I also totally agree.
That is, sometimes those people
don’t have great knowledge, but
they intuitively manage to create
their project from a marketing
or branding concept,
if you want.
The first key is to internalize.
It is an internal work.
You help all organizations
be aligned with that.
If we ask one who we are, and he tells
you one thing, another tells you another,
many of them have contacts with
the end customer, because in
the end what you are
transmitting, the one who hires the
marketing campaigns has an idea
in the head of what we are.
The market has others, etc.
It is very important fundamentally
certain departments, but
in fact all.
Branding is also that the person
who is receiving a visit or who
is on the other side of
the phone respond appropriately
based on values, a personality,
having very clear who is that
brand, what it is and why
it is doing what it is doing.
So the architecture of the building
is transmitting things of your
brand.
The telephone operator is broadcasting
things of your brand.
The product, of course, is the one
you are online or not online.
Therefore, there is an exercise
of interiorization that is essential.
Branding is important.
What is at stake is a brand.
We understand all and keep that
all in all the departments of the
company.
The second is the strategy.
Once we know who we are, what we are
and what we are not, we
define the strategy.
The strategy is to know where
we are going.
Seneca said that there is always a favorable
wind for those who know where they are
going.
Well, because if we know who we are
and know where we are going, we
have already gained a lot.
And large companies, small,
entrepreneurs, can imagine
the number of dishonest
people that exist.
Many, a huge majority.
So let’s define the strategy
well and all align ourselves with
that strategy.
Once we have a clear strategy,
let’s project.
And this is the third step, the projection.
That brand has to consistently
move what it is and what it wants
to be at a strategic level.
And starting with the name,
following the visual identity, ending
with communication, by the development
of products and services that
must be or not equal in all
countries and that there enter
strategic elements, elements
of brand coherence, brand
consistency, etc.
So I still have the doubt here.
In the projection, we will do
the job of identifying what are
all the aspects that have to
project our brand.
Your brand is projecting.
It is in every contact point
with the customer.
We need to identify the contact
points with the customer journey
or some tool like that.
exactly to.
And from there, seek coherence
with what we say we are and with that
strategy that we have given ourselves
and that we have decided.
If you want, in agreement.
From that point on, the outlook
must be logical.
It has to be meaningful in the
framework of brand positioning.
If I am a daring brand, I have
to show daring in the products
and services I launch and
in the way I communicate.
If I am a conservative, it
is the opposite.
One of the biggest problems
with brands is incoherence.
In one country I am this and in another I
am this another.
And the customer who goes and travels to
another country says, well, and this
brand what exactly is?
I start doing a lot of things and
I end up being nothing.
The fourth element is leadership.
We talked about the wolf.
We don’t want wolf policemen.
We want this shared leadership.
Not so much of the person, of the
CEO, if you want, but of those who
are pulling the brand.
The set of leaders must be clear
that what they have in hand
is a brand and lead from the
point of view of what they
have in hand.
The last, fifth, is to have
a brand management system.
Some systems, if you want, of surveillance.
Some control systems, some
projections.
For example, you need to
investigate what your brand reputation
is, what your brand image is, how
customers perceive your brand
in relation to the rest of competitors.
All this allows us to
manage the brand properly.